What do you see, Mr. Paris?
MALE:
Shoes...
PARIS:
muddy shoes.
( whining )
The dog.
Good. That's exactly
what you should see.
But that isn't possible.
I'm sure it's disorienting
to see yourself
through another man's eyes.
No, I...
Tolen!
TOLEN:
Now I understand.
I'd better be
on my way.
You don't have
to go, Tom.
He's got no right.
No right?
This is my home!
You come into my home
and steal my wife,
and I have no right?!
That's not the way
it happened.
This isn't the way it happened!
The trial's over, Mr. Paris.
to further denials.
There's no point
I know about you, Paris.
I know you were in prison.
That has nothing
to do with...
We'll see what your Captain
has to say about this.
When I'm finished
with you,
you'll never wear
that uniform again!
PARIS:
I can't let you do that.
WIFE:
No, Tom! Don't! Stop!
No. I didn't...
( Tolen yelling )
WIFE: Tom, no!
( gagging and gasping )
( Tolen groaning )
Let the record show
that the sentence of the court
has been carried out.
of his natural life,
For the rest
once every 14 hours,
Thomas Eugene Paris
will relive the last moments
of his victim's life.
May the fates have
mercy on you, sir.
If the hydroxyproline level
is elevated this high,
you'd probably call
for a pancreatic scan.
That's exactly
what I'd call for.
All right, then.
Let's run through the
osteographic series again.
Just enter the responses
you're sure about.
So have you given any
more thought to a name?
I asked the Captain
for one.
Why don't you
choose one yourself?
Choose one myself?
Me?
Well, that just isn't...
Holograms are
programmed, Kes.
They don't choose
anything for themselves.
Why not?
Because we're not capable
of choosing.
Well, you choose
what medical treatment
to give someone.
I'm programmed
with over five million
possible treatments,
with contingency programs
and adaptive programs,
but it's all programs
upon programs upon programs.
There's no independent
decision-making.
I don't see
the difference.
The difference is...
I base decisions
on information stored
inside my brain.
How is that so different
from the way you access
your programs?
Well, if you put it
that way...
Do your programs have
any names in them?
Certainly.
I have the names
of Starfleet doctors,
their patients...
medical personnel
in historical
and literary contexts...
So pick a name.
Just... pick one?
Pick a name you like--
perhaps from someone
who inspires you.
Doctor... Dr. Galen.
Dr. Salk. Doctor...
...Spock.
Those are good.
Can you see yourself
with any of those names?
Not exactly.
Take your time.
After all, you
will be that name
for the rest of your life.
Hmm. I never even considered
that I had a life.
Janeway to Sick Bay.
medical holographic program.
Activate emergency
I'm already on, Captain.
What can I do for you?
We've got an incoming shuttle
with an injured crewman
on board.
Any details?
It's either Ensign Kim
or Lieutenant Paris.
We haven't been able
to raise them.
Sensors indicate damage
to various subsystems.
You're sure there's only
one life sign aboard?
That is confirmed,
Captain.
Transport him to Sick Bay.
I'll be down there.
Mr. Tuvok?
They made me leave
without him.
He's severely
dehydrated.
No sleep.
Neodextraline
solution?
Prepare an I.V.
Can you tell us what happened
to Paris, Mr. Kim?
They made me leave
without him.
They said he'd committed
a... a murder.
Do you have any idea
who the victim was?
An engineering physicist
we were working with.
His name was Tolen Ren.
The Banean Minister of Science
just after we'd arrived.
introduced us to him
So from the other
side of the galaxy.
70,000 light-years,
give or take a few.
with a damaged collimator.
That's a long trip home
If anybody on this world can
help you, Professor Ren can.
He's developed
four generations
of navigational arrays
for our ships.
We have to stay one step ahead
of our neighbors, the Numiri.
Did you bring your ship's
specifications with you?
TOLEN: Splendid.
It's all here.
Why don't we begin to look it
over at my home this evening?
to have company for supper.
My wife would be delighted
There was no reason to say no,
KIM:
gone with him that night,
but if we hadn't
none of this would've happened.
( barks )
Oh, come on now, Neeka,
stop that racket.
They're friends!
That's better. That's better.
( chuckling ):
What a good doggie.
Oh, dearest?
Are you dressed?
I should have called.
We have guests.
of the common courtesies.
I just don't think
She's really wonderful
about, uh, tolerating
my dreadful manners.
So you've done it to me again.
Yes, dear.
I apologize.
Lidell, this is
Ensign Harry Kim
and Lieutenant
Tom Paris.
They're from the other
side of the galaxy.
Hello.
Nice to
meet you.
You might have called.
You're absolutely right.
Do you have enough
to feed us all
or shall we go out?
No, it's fine.
I have some leftover
rolk from yesterday.
I'll just throw it
in the stew.
make yourselves at home.
Wonderful! Gentlemen,
I'm going to put on
my slippers.
Lidell will take
good care of you.
Would you like a drink?
Sure.
Help yourself.
What are you
looking at?
Not the same thing
that you're looking at,
that's for sure.
( Neeka barks )
What are you looking at?
( Neeka continues barking )
If it's spoiled,
Neeka wouldn't eat it.
Nothing too fancy
or exotic around here.
We're very simple folks.
You're very kind to include us
at your supper table.
We enjoy
an occasional guest.
I think Lidell
would prefer us
to entertain more often
than we do, yes?
She's, uh, far more social
than I am.
I'm afraid she gets a little
bored here sometimes.
I'm so consumed with my work.
And here we are bringing
more of it home
to take your husband's attention
away for the evening.
Whether you were
here or not
makes no difference.
Tolen would work anyway.
I'm afraid she's right.
We are at war, after all.
By the way, how did you
get past the Numiri patrols?
Lieutenant Paris
is our best pilot.
Captain Janeway decided not
to take our ship into orbit.
She wanted to avoid getting
involved in your conflict.
So we came in on a shuttlecraft
that would avoid
immediate detection
by the Numiri.
the limb of the moon
I hid behind
for your defense perimeter.
before I made a break
their sensors picked us up,
By the time
have a chance to catch us.
they didn't
Well done!
Finished already?
The meat doesn't
taste right.
TOLEN:
Well...
we do have a lot of work
to get done.
Perhaps we should begin.
We went into the other room
and started to work
KIM:
on the navigational beam
specifications.
It was pretty dry stuff--
baseline code algorithms.
you know, rewriting
Tom got bored.
He left us alone
for a while.
I guess he was with Mrs. Ren.
I know they saw each other
again the next day.
Professor Ren was murdered.
That was the night
Did you talk to Lieutenant
Paris after he was detained?
No, they never let me see him.
for almost two days straight.
They interrogated me
They asked me a lot
of questions
about the Numiri.
At first, they must have
thought we were Numiri agents
or something.
Professor Ren was the inventor
warship technology.
of Banean
He's completely exhausted.
Can some of this wait until
he's had a chance to rest?
We'll find out about Paris,
Mr. Kim.
Janeway to Chakotay.
Go ahead.
Set a course for the Banean
homeworld, Commander.
Aye, Captain.
( door chimes )
Come in.
You sent for me, Captain?
( sighs )
Lieutenant Paris has gotten
himself into trouble.
I'm taking this ship
into orbit
while we try
to sort things out.
Be prepared to be intercepted
by Numiri patrols.
They always try to
intimidate travelers
to the Banean planet.
The stakes are too high to send
a shuttlecraft this time.
I want to show our flag
to make it clear
we mean business.
I understand.
Based on your experience,
what can we expect
the Numiri to do
to "intimidate" us?
To be honest, whenever
I saw the Numiri coming,
I always left before
the intimidation began.
( laughing )
Before...
( clears throat )
Uh, however, uh, I know
from, uh, knowledgeable sources
that they have
directed-energy weapons
comparable to your own--
Uh, our own, that is--
Plus regenerative shields
that may even give them
a certain advantage over us
in a fire fight.
Tell me about them,
as a people.
Are they aggressive,
technical,
intellectual, emotional?
Anything that might help me
deal with them.
The Numiri
and the Banea
are quite different
from one another,
even though they once coexisted
on the same planet.
That's why I recommended
the Banea to you
in the first place.
The Numiri have a remarkably
covert society.
Captain to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY:
On my way.
We're scanning a Numiri
vessel approaching.
They're at combat
readiness, Captain.
Shields up.
On screen.
Mr. Neelix?
A standard patrol vessel.
Curious.
Why?
I would have expected them
to send out
more than one tiny patrol
to meet a ship like this.
Let's hope it's
a positive sign.
Hail them.
They're responding.
JANEWAY:
Open a channel.
I am Captain
Kathryn Janeway
of the Federation Starship
Voyager.
What is your business
in this system?
One of my crewmen is being held
on the Banean planet.
We're on our way to investigate.
Consider this official notice
that you are entering
a war zone.
You do so at your own risk.
Understood.
aid or supplies to the Banea
Any attempt to provide
of war against the Numiri.
will be considered an act
You have my word that we intend
to remain neutral
in your conflict.
is in our own crewman.
Our only interest
Proceed.
will be monitored.
Your activities
Very, very curious.
In Numiri terms, that greeting
was downright friendly.
Have all security stations
remain at full alert.
Numiri patrols around the clock.
Continue long-range scans for
TUVOK:
Aye, Captain.
Take us into orbit.
Captain, it's unfortunate
under these circumstances.
we must meet
My Chief
of Security--
Lieutenant Tuvok.
Please.
circumstances, Minister?
Exactly what are these
All we know is that
a member of our crew
has been accused
of murder.
Oh, I'm afraid he's been
more than just accused.
He's been convicted and punished
according to our law.
What form of punishment?
The perpetrator of a murder
is forced to relive the crime
through his victim's eyes.
How is this achieved?
our Chief Medical Officer
I can have
in detail, if you wish.
describe the procedure
We have the capability
of isolating memory engrams
in the brain.
from the final moments of life.
We take them
After they're used in the trial,
they're transplanted
into the perpetrator's brain.
These memories... are used
in the trial as evidence?
serves as host to the engrams
An artificial life-form
and testifies to their content.
the victim's last memories
In this case,
clearly show Mr. Paris
caught in...
an embarrassing episode
with Mrs. Ren.
An argument ensues.
victim's own eyes killing him.
Paris is then seen by the
The evidence of his guilt
is incontrovertible.
Captain.
Are you all right, Tom?
I've been better.
May we speak
to him alone?
Of course.
( sighs )
That rehab colony
back in New Zealand
doesn't seem so bad
right now.
Lieutenant, did you murder
Professor Ren?
No.
But the victim's
own eyes identified...
You don't have
to tell me
what the victim's own
eyes saw, Captain.
I don't understand it
either,
but I did not kill him.
Were you having improper
relations with his wife?
Their marriage was over.
She told Ren they were finished
the same day he was killed.
That does not answer
my question.
Nothing happened between us.
Almost nothing.
Tom...
it's very important
you tell us everything.
Harry said you spent
some time with Mrs. Ren
while he and the Professor
were working.
I was bored.
two science guys get together.
You know how it is when
I came out of the other room,
and saw her in the atrium.
looked over
( chuckles )
a million kilometers away--
Her eyes were
Staring at stars I'd just
flown by the day before.
Smoking is a bad habit.
My species gave it up
centuries ago
when we finally got it into
our heads it was killing us.
You must be a very
superior species.
That's... not what I meant.
Maybe I kill myself slowly
because I don't have the courage
to do it quickly.
Now, why would you go and
say a thing like that?
Don't.
What?
Don't get involved, Lieutenant.
I was just
trying to...
You'll be sorry.
Look, I was just bored to tears
in the other room,
you might like to talk.
and I thought
Why don't you go ahead
and ask me?
Ask you what?
What you've been wanting
to ask me all night...
what they all want to ask me.
old enough to be my father.
Why I'd marry a man
I hadn't been wondering.
I'd be lying if I said
He was good to me.
A lot of other men weren't.
a good enough reason to me.
That sounds like
He's a good man.
I would never do anything
to hurt him.
I guess...
that makes you
a good woman.
"Good" can get very...
boring.
No, Tom! Don't.
No. I...
Stop! No!
What's going on?
No!
Apparently, he's entering
another cycle.
( yelling )
Is this normal?
We had some problems
integrating the Banean engrams
into his alien neurology.
This is the first time
he's lost consciousness
since the implant.
I'd like to take him
back with us
to our medical
facility.
I'm sorry, but I
can't authorize that.
Perhaps we should consider
her request, Minister.
We don't want to risk
general synaptic failure.
Their doctors might be
better suited to stabilize
his condition.
All right, but you're not
to leave orbit with him.
Minister, we don't intend
to leave orbit
until we prove his innocence.
Away team to Voyager.
Three to beam up.
It's medicine clearly
beyond anything
DOCTOR:
we've ever encountered before.
What bothers me the most
is the neural pathway damage
it seems to be causing.
It appears to be progressive.
Then this punishment
could actually be causing
serious brain damage.
before he's seriously affected,
How long it might be
I really have no idea.
I would appreciate
receiving a copy
of your neurological
analysis, Doctor.
It's extremely technical.
To the layman, it would be
virtually indecipherable.
Nevertheless, I will want
to examine it in detail.
for an appeal of the sentence,
This might be the basis
don't you think?
Perhaps.
However, before the neural
implants were developed,
the Banean punishment for murder
was lethal injection.
they would view that
It is possible
as the only alternative sentence
in this case.
Will he regain
consciousness?
I believe so,
but each time
the cycle repeats,
I'm afraid his brain will
take another damaging blow.
When he wakes up,
I will require
an autonomic response analysis
while I question him
again, Doctor.
Do you really think
Tom would lie to us?
As an investigator,
I do not have the freedom
to ignore any possibility.
maintains his innocence,
Mr. Paris
yet the victim has identified
him from the grave,
and the victim's wife
has testified against him
at the trial.
Someone is obviously lying.
An ARA will tell us
if it is Mr. Paris.
I'll have it ready for you.
In the meantime,
Captain,
to return to the surface.
I request permission
What do you have in mind,
Tuvok?
I would like to examine
the murder scene
and speak with Mrs. Ren.
Mrs. Ren?
Yes?
I'm Lieutenant Tuvok
of the Starship Voyager.
Would you mind if I asked
you a few questions?
Are you a friend
of Tom's?
I am the Starfleet
Chief of Security
investigating
his alleged participation
in your husband's murder.
( dog growls )
Stop it, Neeka.
She just doesn't like strangers.
Based on your testimony,
where the murder occurred.
I assume this is
Yes, right there.
I had to have a professional
cleaning crew
come in to remove
the bloodstain.
You chose to remain
in the house
after an act
of such violence occurred?
This has been my home for
over ten years, Mr. Tuvok.
Do you really find that
so hard to believe?
I am a Vulcan, Mrs. Ren.
a dispassionate people.
By nature, we are
It is rare to encounter someone
as dispassionate as we are.
Dispassionate?
Is that how I seem to you?
I think you'd get an argument
from Tom Paris.
Can I get you a drink?
Thank you, no.
Mind if I have one?
Please.
You testified at the trial
that you and your husband
had an argument the afternoon
before he was killed.
an argument, Lieutenant.
I never said there was
Have you ever had
to end a marriage?
No.
Are you married?
My wife and I have been married
for 67 years.
I'm sure she's a fine,
dispassionate woman.
( chuckles )
I hope you never have
to find out for yourself,
but I can tell you,
ending a marriage...
it's a quiet thing.
The arguments are long over
and there's really nothing much
left to say at all.
May I ask why you decided
at this time
to end your marriage
to Professor Ren?
Because I was attracted
to another man.
I didn't want to deceive
my husband.
was Lieutenant Paris?
That other man
Lieutenant Paris would have been
departing this planet
in a few days,
and yet, you left your husband
of ten years for him.
gave me the push I needed.
Meeting Tom
that it was time to start over.
I already knew in my heart
Exactly when did you
see Mr. Paris
on the day of the murder?
at the Engineering Institute
I went to see him
after I talked with my husband.
Once I was free, I knew
he wanted to be with me.
How did you know?
A woman knows, Lieutenant.
He left his friend Harry
the technical research
to finish
and walked me home.
We were caught in a cloudburst
on the way.
Oh, I'm completely
soaked.
There must be a centimeter
of water in my boots.
Here, let me help you.
We shouldn't.
It's okay.
He knows it's over.
But you're still
a married woman.
I haven't been married
for years, Tom.
To him, I'm a friend,
a companion.
He hasn't treated me
like a woman since...
It must have been
the day of the eclipse
four years ago.
Eclipse?
He was very excited
by the eclipse.
Don't ask me why.
Our timing's
just a little off.
You'll be gone
in a few days.
This is the only
time we've got.
Let me make you something
to warm you up.
I love to drink
Marob root tea
on rainy afternoons.
I made some tea.
We talked for a while.
Then we went out to the atrium
to watch the storm...
and the rest you know.
at any time during the fight
Did you leave the room
and Lieutenant Paris?
between your husband
I saw Tom murder
my husband, Mr. Tuvok.
I tried to stop him.
I couldn't.
Voyager to Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY:
This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
Mr. Paris has regained
consciousness.
I thought you'd want to know.
I'll be returning shortly.
Thank you.
Tuvok out.
Thank you for your
help, Mrs. Ren.
Lieutenant.
When you see Tom...
would you tell him that I...
forgive him?
Everything she told you
is true.
Except I don't remember
going into the atrium
or anything else after that.
The last thing
you remember is?
Sitting with her,
drinking tea...
talking about the sensual
effects of eclipses...
After that I must have
fallen asleep.
When I woke up, I was in a cell.
He's telling you
the truth.
of a sedative in his system
Was there any evidence
when he returned here?
The Banean medical
authorities checked him.
They didn't find any
drugs in his blood.
Most narcotics would have
been gone from his system
by the time he got to me.
Chakotay to Tuvok.
You're needed on the Bridge.
We're under attack
by Numiri patrols.
On my way, Commander.
Evasive pattern Beta 140.
Dual attack mode.
Evasive pattern confirmed.
They're attempting to lock
a tractor beam on us.
That is a standard tactic
for the Numiri
when they intend
to board your vessel.
Well, at least now
you know
I was telling the truth
about them, Captain.
Although I take no pleasure
in being right, mind you.
But why now?
Why an unprovoked attack?
What are they after?
The Numiri have never needed
an excuse to attack anyone.
Shields at 90 percent
and holding.
Commander, prepare to initiate
attack maneuver Kappa 010.
Captain, if you
don't mind...
there's a Maquis trick
we sometimes use
to get out of
situations like this.
Be my guest.
B'Elanna, remember
Teluridian IV?
The two Starfleet runabouts?
I'm with you.
the dorsal phase emitters.
Blowing out
Torres to Engineering.
Go ahead.
of LN-2 exhaust conduits
Vent a couple
along the dorsal emitters.
we're in serious trouble.
Make it look like
Understood.
Cut all engines.
Engines off-line.
their navigational deflectors.
Tuvok, lock phasers on
Acknowledged.
Numiri ships are closing.
4,000 kilometers.
Not to belittle Maquis tactics,
Commander, but this is
a very old trick.
It worked against those
Starfleet runabouts.
You're lucky I wasn't
commanding one of them.
2,000 kilometers.
CHAKOTAY:
Besides,
out here in the
Delta Quadrant,
every old trick
is new again.
1,500 kilometers.
They're sending out
tractor beams again.
That's our cue.
Fire phasers.
Engage impulse engines.
are disabled, Captain.
Both Numiri vessels
That's one trick you won't
be able to use again
when we get back.
I have more.
Cancel Red Alert.
Take us into high orbit.
NEELIX:
Captain.
More Numiri will be coming.
I promise you.
Mr. Tuvok, any progress
with your investigation?
TUVOK:
Based on the ARA,
I am convinced
believes what he is saying.
Lieutenant Paris
However, I can offer no tangible
evidence on his behalf.
Considering the urgency
of the situation,
the only logical alternative
I believe
is to witness the crime myself.
at this time
Yourself?
I propose a mind-meld
with Lieutenant Paris.
A-a what?
What, what did he say?
A mind what?
Let me tell you something,
Lieutenant.
Believe it or not,
I know more about
mind-melds than you do.
I know what every
Vulcan doctor has said
in every study of mind-melds,
and I still cannot tell you
what will happen
if you do this.
If these cycles cause damage
to a human brain,
there's no telling
what the risk might be
to a Vulcan.
I've examined your neurological
reports, Doctor,
and I believe the risk
is acceptable.
Tuvok...
Captain...
the answers I seek
can only be found
in the eyes of the murdered man.
prove Lieutenant Paris innocent.
It may be our only chance to
Tom?
Tolen!
TOLEN:
Now I understand.
I'd better be
on my way.
You don't have to go, Tom.
He's got no right.
TOLEN:
No right?
This is my home!
You come into my home
and steal my wife,
and I have no right?
That's not the way
it happened.
We'll see what your Captain
has to say about this.
When I'm finished with you,
you'll never wear
that uniform again.
I can't let you do that.
PARIS:
No, Tom, don't. Stop! No!
( Tolen yells )
( Tolen groaning )
The cycle's ended.
No neural damage
that I can detect.
with Ensign Kim immediately.
Captain, I must consult
With Kim? Why?
I assume he has access
to Professor Ren's research.
I believe it will explain
not only why Lieutenant Paris
has been accused of a murder
he did not commit,
but also why the Numiri
chose to attack us.
His condition has
continued to deteriorate.
He'll have serious
brain damage
if the implants
are not removed.
We are not a barbaric
people, Captain.
This was meant as punishment
not torture.
I see no alternative but to
remove the implants, do you?
precedent, of course,
There is no legal
but we can petition
the courts immediately.
I cannot assure you'll find
an alternative sentence
more to your liking.
We're still committed to proving
his innocence, Minister.
When do you intend
to return him to our custody?
Due to the nature
of his condition,
that our transporting device
we're concerned
further medical complications.
might cause
So we're sending him back
by shuttlecraft.
They'll leave this ship
in one hour.
I'll make the necessary
preparations.
This is all
your fault, you know?
My fault?
Yeah, I consider you
the conscience I never had.
You're supposed to keep me
on the straight and narrow.
I tried to warn you.
( chuckles ):
Funny, so did she.
If it had been me,
I would have stayed
as far away
from her as possible.
Someday it will
be you, Harry.
You'll meet her,
and you'll know it's wrong from
the first moment you see her.
And you'll know there's nothing
you can do about it.
( console beeps )
Here they come.
Numiri patrol approaching,
bearing 067 mark 24.
Red Alert.
On screen.
Range, 100,000 kilometers
and closing.
They're changing course,
Captain.
CHAKOTAY:
They're going straight
for the shuttle
just as you said
they would, Lieutenant.
( beeping )
Shuttle to Voyager.
They've locked a
tractor beam on us.
Offer no resistance, Harry.
Acknowledged.
Hey, Tuvok.
PARIS:
a little late to ask,
I know it's
logic of this thing worked out?
but you're sure you've got the
we will know it shortly.
If I am incorrect,
Well, that makes me feel
a whole lot better.
( loud clunk )
We're being boarded.
He's the one.
NUMIRI:
This is Captain Kathryn Janeway
of the Federation
Starship Voyager.
You have illegally seized
one of our shuttlecraft.
I warned you that you were
entering a war zone
at your own risk.
Yes.
We appreciated that warning
appropriate precautions.
and took
If you read the sensor readouts
in front of you,
you will see that the shuttle
is carrying 40 tons
of thalmerite explosives--
enough to destroy your ship.
those explosives in 30 seconds
I'm prepared to detonate
if you do not release
our vessel.
End transmission.
The shuttle's being released.
The Numiri ship is withdrawing.
Tractor the shuttle
and take us into low orbit.
Cancel Red Alert.
Mr. Paris, how soon
before your next cycle?
Seven hours.
That should be enough time
to clear this up.
this is your show now.
Mr. Tuvok,
With your permission,
I would like to invite
all interested parties
to meet at the scene of
the murder in two hours.
I'll invite the Minister myself.
Lieutenant Paris was not
the man Professor Ren saw
before he was murdered.
Not the man...
But it was clearly
established at the trial.
It is true.
Paris' image was seen
in the memories
examined during the trial.
However,
that is because someone
altered the engrams
from Professor Ren's brain.
But that simply isn't possible
for this procedure.
that there is no such thing
I would suggest, sir,
entirely safe from tampering.
as a technology that is
You're forgetting one thing.
I was here and I saw him do it.
On the contrary,
your statement, Mrs. Ren.
I have not forgotten
However, I now know
it is clearly false.
PARIS:
Just what was
in that tea
you gave me, Lidell?
Is this just idle speculation,
or do you have some evidence?
Mr. Paris, would you please
stand next to Mrs. Ren?
What for?
If you wouldn't mind.
The man Professor Ren
observed with his wife
was virtually equal
in height to her.
is several centimeters taller.
Clearly, Lieutenant Paris
what my husband saw?
How do you know
Vulcans have the ability
to meld telepathically
with another's mind.
your husband's memories
I observed
went through his cycle.
as Lieutenant Paris
I watched as the killer
stabbed Professor Ren
right here,
through the intercostal space
and ninth right ribs--
between the eighth
of the Banean heart.
the exact location
The killer clearly knew
Banean anatomy.
Lieutenant Paris did not.
your word for all of this?
Are we supposed to take
There is additional evidence.
we can now say for certain
For example,
was murdered by a Numiri agent.
that Professor Ren
Lieutenant,
What?
did you notice the stream
of symbols and numbers
that were superimposed
on the images?
Symbols?
Well, yeah,
I guess I did.
I didn't know
what they meant.
I thought they were
part of the procedure.
In researching
this procedure,
I found no other reference
to this phenomenon.
I have now confirmed
that these symbols and numbers
were equations
taken from Professor Ren's
weapons research.
Someone intended them to be
delivered to the Numiri.
You're saying somebody
used his brain
to send secret data
to our enemy?
He was a logical courier.
The Numiri agents knew he could
leave the planet's surface
without raising suspicion.
The Numiri made two attempts
to gain access to Mr. Paris.
They attacked just after
he returned to Voyager,
when he was in the shuttle.
and then again
had to be informing the Numiri
Someone on the surface
of Lieutenant Paris' movements.
Do you know who did this?
would be in transit, Minister.
You knew when Mr. Paris
But the doctor is the one
to release him to our custody.
who encouraged you
He is also
the one
who performed
the implant procedure.
I know of no one else who had
the opportunity and knowledge
to carry out this plan.
to listen to any of this.
I'm not going
I really would like you
to listen, Doctor.
Would you please
stand again, Mrs. Ren.
So we're the
same height.
It proves nothing.
I never saw this woman
prior to the death
of her husband.
I was never even in
this house before today.
You forget the other witness
who was here
on the night of the murder,
Doctor.
asking her to come in?
Would you mind
( whining squeakily )
TUVOK:
It appears
that you are no stranger
to Neeka, Doctor.
He lied to me, Tom.
No one was supposed
to get hurt.
You know I could never
do anything to hurt you.
Yeah.
You could.
and conversation )
( quiet laughter
Tuvok.
Mr. Paris.
There are some who'd say
you risked my future
on the eyewitness
identification of a dog.
It seemed a necessary step
to ensure a
truthful resolution.
Well... I appreciate
you sticking up for me.
I owe you one.
a criminal investigation.
I conducted
If you had been guilty,
I assure you
I would have pursued the truth
just as vigilantly.
You have no debt to me,
Mr. Paris.
( sighs )
How come I always see you
down here
eating alone, Lieutenant?
rather than engage in...
I prefer to read
What do humans call it--
short talk?
Close enough.
many friends that way.
You don't make
Perhaps.
Well, like it or not,
you've made one today,
Mr. Tuvok.